Draft for review: script security (#4693)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/security/scripted.adoc

---

> title: Scripted Security

Author: ```suggestion
title: Security for Scripts
```

> title: Scripted Security

Author: Renamed page

layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]

Apache Groovy scripts can be executed on the Jenkins controller and agents through various mechanisms including:

* link:/doc/book/managing/script-console/[Script Console]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/groovy/[Groovy plugin] 
when using the "Execute system Groovy script" step
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/email-ext/[Extended Email plugin]

> * link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/groovy/[Job DSL plugin]

Reviewer: Maybe it's better to structure this page more explicitly along the following lines to guide readers along a top-level view of the concepts involved?

1. Scripting capabilities are very powerful, but are potentially dangerous if mishandled.
2. The unrestricted Groovy-based Script Console is a powerful diagnostic tool and can only be used by admins. It has full access to all Jenkins internals and no restrictions.
3. Many plugins offer scripting capabilities (this list) to users without Overall/Administer permission, and they integrate with Script Security plugin to do this more safely.
4. Script Security plugin has a _sandbox_ for Groovy scripts and Pipelines, and _whole-script approval_ for all languages it supports.
5. The sandbox allows regular users to implement scripts safely, restricting access to potentially unsafe code based on an allowlist (default + admin customizable, but that is very complicated)
6. Whole-script approval lets users ask admins to approve entire scripts. This is generally discouraged.

Author: Thanks for this!  As you may have guessed, I did not understand this well but this clarifies things a lot!  I will rewrite.

* link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/[Pipelines]

Scripts are powerful and useful tools but they must be managed carefully
to ensure that they are not used to compromise your installation:

> * Limit the people to whom the the "Overall/Runscripts" authorization is granted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Limit the people to whom the *Overall/Administer* permission is granted.
```

This allows people to use the
link:/doc/book/managing/script-console/[Script Console].
This authorization allows one to type in and execute an Apache Groovy script
in a largely unrestricted environment
so it should only be available to highly trusted, sophisticated users.

> * *NEVER* run Jenkins or agents as the root or system administrator user on the operating system
> because this could allow processes to bypass normal protections for the Script Console.

Reviewer 2: This does not make any sense to me either. OS permissions are irrelevant in this context.
```suggestion
```

> Two facilities are provided that  allow users with lesser permissions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Two facilities are provided that allow users with lesser permissions
```

> (such as "Job/Configure" or "Job/Run") to run scripts that may be associated with plugins or their applications:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(such as *Job/Configure* or *Job/Build*) to run scripts that may be associated with plugins or their applications:
```

> * Jenkins maintains a list of "approved" scripts that can not do any damage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Jenkins maintains a list of "approved" scripts that cannot do any damage.
```

> * Jenkins maintains a list of "approved" scripts that can not do any damage.

Author: I specified that the Script Security Plugin provides these facilities

If a user attempts to run a script that is not approved,
the script is blocked until an administrator reviews the script and approves it

> using the _Manage Jenkins >> In-process Script Approval_ screen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using the _Manage Jenkins » In-process Script Approval_ screen.
```

> In most cases, you should use the
> link:/doc/book/managing/script-approval/#approve-assuming-permissions-check[Approve assuming permissions check] option rather than the simple Approve option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

No this is not true at all and in fact that option should rarely if ever be used.

Anyway this option pertains to sandbox signatures, unrelated to whole-script approval which this bullet point is about.

> In most cases, you should use the
> link:http://localhost:4242/doc/book/managing/script-approval/#approve-assuming-permissions-check[Approve assuming permissions check] option rather than the simple Approve option.

Reviewer 2: Just no.

```suggestion
```

Anyway this (very dubious) feature applies to the sandbox, _not_ whole-script approval, so it is not even in the right bullet point.

link:/doc/book/managing/script-approval/#groovy-sandbox[Groovy Sandbox] without approval.
Each method call, object construction, and field access is checked against a list of allowed operations.
If the script attempts to call any operations that are not allowed,
it is killed and the unallowed operation is added to an approval queue.

> An adminstrator can approve that operation and then the script can be rerun.

Reviewer 4: Spelling fix detected thanks to the spell checker from @halkeye 
```suggestion
An administrator can approve that operation and then the script can be rerun.
```

* Scripts written in languages other than Groovy can be run by an administrator
or must be approved by an administrator;
the sandbox is only for Groovy scripts.

* Users can disable the Groovy sandbox.

> The entire script must be approved by the administrator unless it is in the list of administrator-managed list of approved scripts.

Reviewer 2: This is just part of the first bullet point?

> the sandbox is only for Groovy scripts.

Reviewer: Almost never matters I think?

* https://plugins.jenkins.io/command-launcher/ uses `SystemCommandLanguage`.
* https://plugins.jenkins.io/email-ext/ uses `JellyLanguage`

That seems to be it?

Reviewer 2: Yup, very uncommon.

Author: Are you saying lines 52-54 should be deleted?

* Users can disable the Groovy sandbox.

> the entire script must be approved by the administrator unless it is in the list of administrator-managed list of approved scripts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The entire script must be approved by the administrator unless it is in the list of administrator-managed list of approved scripts.
``
`

> * Users can disable the Groovy sandbox.
> the entire script must be approved by the administrator unless it is in the list of administrator-managed list of approved scripts.

Reviewer 2: Just duplicates the first bullet point?

```suggestion
```

////
This is an alternative to the preceding bullet item.
I am guessing that the documenttion reflects the current reality.

> * You should never disable the sandbox. If you disable the sandbox, a Scripted Pipeline (or a `script` step in a Declarative Pipelin) has unfettered access to Jenkins inernal objects.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* You should never disable the sandbox. If you disable the sandbox, a Scripted Pipeline (or a `script` step in a Declarative Pipelin) has unfettered access to Jenkins internal objects.
```

typo :)

> * You should never disable the sandbox. If you disable the sandbox, a Scripted Pipeline (or a `script` step in a Declarative Pipelin) has unfettered access to Jenkins internal objects.

Reviewer 4: Spelling fix
```suggestion
* You should never disable the sandbox. If you disable the sandbox, a Scripted Pipeline (or a `script` step in a Declarative Pipeline) has unfettered access to Jenkins internal objects.
```

> * You should never disable the sandbox. If you disable the sandbox, a Scripted Pipeline (or a `script` step in a Declarative Pipelin) has unfettered access to Jenkins inernal objects.

Reviewer: Normal users cannot do it; only admins. So the real advice is probably to teach users to deal with the restrictions of the sandbox, preferring Jenkins's REST API over internal (Java) APIs; minimize whole-script approvals, and instead use https://plugins.jenkins.io/workflow-cps-global-lib/ that are versioned and tested.

Reviewer 4: https://plugins.jenkins.io/pipeline-groovy-lib/ is the replacement

For a light-hearted explanation about how dangerous this can be, see

> link:https://brokenco.de/2017/08/03/donut-disable-groovy-sandbox.html[Do not disable Groovy Sandbox].

Reviewer: 😁
